h1. meine erde

This is the data for my blog. It is automatically transformed to HTML using "nanoc":http://nanoc.stoneship.org/

After having developed some content management systems on my own (two in PHP, one in Python/Django), I finally grew up enough to use something others have developed.

Being kind-of a hacker and realizing that every system I looked at would have to be heavily customized to feel like home, I came across those static site generators like "Jekyll":http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll and "nanoc":http://nanoc.stoneship.org/ I felt right at home. So here it is. The complete source of "meine erde":http://meine-er.de is stored inside this git repository.

And should I ever feel like abandoning the site, I will not have to maintain an outdated system anymore. Plain HTML files are easy to keep alive :)

h2. License

All textual and media content (especially everything inside the @content/articles@ and @static/media@ directories) is licensed under "cc by-sa 3.0 de":http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/de/. Everything else including code snippets inside the articles, the CSS, design and the nanoc additions are licensed under MIT. Possible exceptions are stated in the respective files.

At the very least, provide a link to "http://meine-er.de":http://meine-er.de and mention my name (Holger Just).

The fonts inside the @static/fonts@ directory are copyrighted by the respective artists. They were all transformed for the web using the awesome "@font-face generator":http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fontface/generator by Font Squirrel.

- "Inconsolata":http://www.levien.com/type/myfonts/inconsolata.html := copyright by Raph Levien, licensed under "SIL Open Font License":http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=OFL&_sc=1
- "Calluna":http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/calluna.html, "Fontin Sans":http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/fontinsans.html, "Museo":http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/museo.html, "Museo Sans":http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/museosans.html := Copyright by "Jos Buivenga":http://www.exljbris.nl/

