---
title: en_us.utf-8 locale on OpenSolaris
tags: [lang:en, Opensolaris]
created_at: 2009-10-29 23:11:44 CET
updated_at: 2010-07-27 00:19:29 CEST
author: Holger Just

kind: article
publish: true
---

_This is mainly a pointer for me to remember things..._

If you have an OpenSolaris 200x.xx installed as a minimal image (like "that one":http://alexeremin.blogspot.com/2008/12/minimum-opensolaris-200811-install.html) you will notice that there is a rather unfriendly assortment of locales installed:

<% filter :code, :bash do %>
locale -a
C
POSIX
iso_8859_1
<% end %>

What we (or at least I) want instead is the "default" locale en_us.UTF-8
Google has pointed me to the @localeadm@ tool to solve this. However this tool seems not to be available anymore on Opensolaris. Instead, one is expected to do the following:

<% filter :code_simple, :bash do %>
pkg install lang-support-english
<% end %>

This installs ca. 135 MB of packages. Unfortunately one of them is a complete X.org server which I specifically did not want to install in the first place as the system is intended to be a server where I deem an X server to be just unnecessary cruft. Fortunately, it is not started by default, so it seems, I have to live with that.

Another call of @locale -a@ shows us a much friendlier view on the system:

<% filter :code, :bash do %>
locale -a
C
POSIX
en_AU
en_AU.ISO8859-1
en_AU.UTF-8
en_CA
en_CA.ISO8859-1
en_CA.UTF-8
en_GB
en_GB.ISO8859-1
en_GB.ISO8859-15
en_GB.ISO8859-15@euro
en_GB.UTF-8
en_IE
en_IE.ISO8859-1
en_IE.ISO8859-15
en_IE.ISO8859-15@euro
en_IE.UTF-8
en_MT.UTF-8
en_NZ
en_NZ.ISO8859-1
en_NZ.UTF-8
en_US
en_US.ISO8859-1
en_US.ISO8859-15
en_US.ISO8859-15@euro
en_US.UTF-8
iso_8859_1
<% end %>

To setup our newly installed locale, just put this line

<% filter :code_simple, :bash do %>
LANG="en_US.UTF-8"
<% end %>

into the file @/etc/default/init@ and reboot the system.

*Sigh*, sometimes are things so much easier on the Linux side of life.

The hint to the solution came from the "OpenSolaris Forum":http://opensolaris.org/jive/thread.jspa?threadID=13807 btw.

h2. Update 2010-02-23

You can also just install the locale files without the overhead that comes from @lang-support-english@. Just install on Opensolaris < Build 133

<% filter :code_simple, :bash do %>
pkg install SUNWlang-enUS
<% end %>
or on Opensolaris >= Build 133

<% filter :code_simple, :bash do %>
pkg install system/locale/en_us
<% end %>